# ----- These are tests we will not fix

# The tests below rely on the ES6 spec quirk that allows 'let' as an identifier. We've
# always treated 'let' as a reserved keyword (without ever getting a bug report about it),
# so we'll keep it that way. It also removes a huge headache in the parser.
language/statements/for-in/let-block-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for-of/let-block-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for/let-block-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/if/let-block-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/labeled/let-block-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/while/let-block-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/with/let-block-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for-in/let-identifier-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for-of/let-identifier-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for/let-identifier-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/if/let-identifier-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/labeled/let-identifier-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/while/let-identifier-with-newline.js sloppyFails
language/statements/with/let-identifier-with-newline.js sloppyFails

# The ES6/7 spec says that [[DefineOwnProperty]] on the module namespace exotic object
# always returns false. This was changed in https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/858
# but it's not in the published spec yet.
language/module-code/namespace/internals/define-own-property.js strictFails
# This test includes the above and therefore also fails.
language/module-code/namespace/internals/set.js strictFails

# ----- test failures that should be fixed
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/Array.prototype.concat_large-typed-array.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/Array.prototype.concat_sloppy-arguments-with-dupes.js sloppyFails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/Array.prototype.concat_sloppy-arguments.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/Array.prototype.concat_small-typed-array.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/Array.prototype.concat_spreadable-function.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/Array.prototype.concat_spreadable-reg-exp.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/Array.prototype.concat_spreadable-sparse-object.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/Array.prototype.concat_strict-arguments.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/S15.4.4.4_A3_T1.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/S15.4.4.4_A3_T2.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/S15.4.4.4_A3_T3.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/create-ctor-non-object.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/create-ctor-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/create-proxy.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/create-species-abrupt.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/create-species-non-ctor.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/create-species-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/create-species.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/concat/is-concat-spreadable-val-falsey.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/copyWithin/return-abrupt-from-has-start.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/every/15.4.4.16-3-29.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/filter/create-ctor-non-object.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/filter/create-ctor-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/filter/create-proxy.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/filter/create-species-abrupt.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/filter/create-species-non-ctor.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/filter/create-species-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/filter/create-species.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/includes/length-boundaries.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/indexOf/15.4.4.14-3-28.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/indexOf/15.4.4.14-3-29.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/join/S15.4.4.5_A4_T3.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/lastIndexOf/15.4.4.15-3-28.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/map/create-ctor-non-object.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/map/create-ctor-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/map/create-proxy.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/map/create-species-abrupt.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/map/create-species-non-ctor.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/map/create-species-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/map/create-species.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/pop/S15.4.4.6_A2_T2.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/pop/S15.4.4.6_A3_T1.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/pop/S15.4.4.6_A3_T2.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/pop/clamps-to-integer-limit.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/pop/length-near-integer-limit.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/push/S15.4.4.7_A2_T2.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/push/S15.4.4.7_A3.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/push/throws-if-integer-limit-exceeded.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/reverse/length-exceeding-integer-limit-with-object.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/reverse/length-exceeding-integer-limit-with-proxy.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/S15.4.4.10_A3_T1.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/S15.4.4.10_A3_T2.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-ctor-non-object.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-ctor-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-non-array-invalid-len.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-proxied-array-invalid-len.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-proxy.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-species-abrupt.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-species-neg-zero.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-species-non-ctor.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-species-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/create-species.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/length-exceeding-integer-limit-proxied-array.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/slice/length-exceeding-integer-limit.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/some/15.4.4.17-3-28.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/some/15.4.4.17-3-29.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/sort/comparefn-nonfunction-call-throws.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/S15.4.4.12_A3_T1.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/clamps-length-to-integer-limit.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/create-ctor-non-object.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/create-ctor-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/create-proxy.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/create-species-abrupt.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/create-species-length-exceeding-integer-limit.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/create-species-neg-zero.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/create-species-non-ctor.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/create-species-poisoned.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/create-species.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/length-and-deleteCount-exceeding-integer-limit.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/length-exceeding-integer-limit-shrink-array.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/splice/length-near-integer-limit-grow-array.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/toLocaleString/primitive_this_value.js strictFails
built-ins/Array/prototype/toLocaleString/primitive_this_value_getter.js strictFails
built-ins/Array/prototype/unshift/clamps-to-integer-limit.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/unshift/length-near-integer-limit.js fails
built-ins/Array/prototype/unshift/throws-if-integer-limit-exceeded.js fails
built-ins/ArrayBuffer/data-allocation-after-object-creation.js fails
built-ins/ArrayIteratorPrototype/next/detach-typedarray-in-progress.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunction-construct.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunction-is-extensible.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunction-is-subclass.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunction-length.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunction-name.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunction-prototype.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunction.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunctionPrototype-is-extensible.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunctionPrototype-prototype.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/AsyncFunctionPrototype-to-string.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/instance-construct-throws.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/instance-has-name.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/instance-length.js fails
built-ins/AsyncFunction/instance-prototype-property.js fails
built-ins/AsyncGeneratorPrototype/next/name.js fails
built-ins/AsyncGeneratorPrototype/return/name.js fails
built-ins/AsyncGeneratorPrototype/throw/name.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wait/did-timeout.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wait/good-views.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wait/nan-timeout.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wait/negative-timeout.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wait/no-spurious-wakeup.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wait/was-woken.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wake/counts.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wake/wake-all-on-loc.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wake/wake-all.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wake/wake-in-order.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wake/wake-nan.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wake/wake-negative.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wake/wake-one.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wake/wake-two.js fails
built-ins/Atomics/wake/wake-zero.js fails
built-ins/DataView/custom-proto-access-throws.js fails
built-ins/DataView/custom-proto-if-object-is-used.js fails
built-ins/Date/prototype/toDateString/format.js fails
built-ins/Date/prototype/toDateString/invalid-date.js fails
built-ins/Date/prototype/toString/format.js fails
built-ins/Date/prototype/toTimeString/format.js fails
built-ins/Date/prototype/toTimeString/invalid-date.js fails
built-ins/Date/prototype/toUTCString/day-names.js fails
built-ins/Date/prototype/toUTCString/format.js fails
built-ins/Date/prototype/toUTCString/month-names.js fails
built-ins/Function/internals/Construct/base-ctor-revoked-proxy.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/Symbol.hasInstance/value-get-prototype-of-err.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/bind/BoundFunction_restricted-properties.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/bind/instance-name-chained.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/bind/instance-name-error.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/bind/instance-name-non-string.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/bind/instance-name.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/AsyncFunction.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/async-arrow-function.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/async-function-declaration.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/async-function-expression.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/async-method-class-expression-static.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/async-method-class-expression.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/async-method-class-statement-static.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/async-method-class-statement.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/async-method-object.js fails
built-ins/Function/prototype/toString/method-computed-property-name.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/revived-proxy-revoked.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/revived-proxy.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/reviver-array-define-prop-err.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/reviver-array-delete-err.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/reviver-array-length-coerce-err.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/reviver-array-length-get-err.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/reviver-call-err.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/reviver-get-name-err.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/reviver-object-define-prop-err.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/reviver-object-delete-err.js fails
built-ins/JSON/parse/reviver-object-own-keys-err.js fails
built-ins/JSON/stringify/replacer-proxy-revoked.js fails
built-ins/JSON/stringify/replacer-proxy.js fails
built-ins/JSON/stringify/value-proxy.js fails
built-ins/Map/prototype/forEach/iterates-values-deleted-then-readded.js fails
built-ins/Math/round/S15.8.2.15_A7.js fails
built-ins/Number/prototype/toPrecision/return-values.js fails
built-ins/Object/create/15.2.3.5-4-14.js strictFails
built-ins/Object/create/15.2.3.5-4-37.js strictFails
built-ins/Object/entries/getter-making-future-key-nonenumerable.js fails
built-ins/Object/entries/getter-removing-future-key.js fails
built-ins/Object/entries/observable-operations.js fails
built-ins/Object/getOwnPropertyDescriptors/proxy-undefined-descriptor.js fails
built-ins/Object/keys/proxy-keys.js fails
built-ins/Object/proto-from-ctor.js fails
built-ins/Object/prototype/toLocaleString/primitive_this_value_getter.js strictFails
built-ins/Object/prototype/toString/proxy-array.js fails
built-ins/Object/prototype/toString/proxy-function.js fails
built-ins/Object/prototype/valueOf/S15.2.4.4_A14.js fails
built-ins/Object/values/getter-adding-key.js fails
built-ins/Object/values/observable-operations.js fails
built-ins/Promise/prototype/catch/this-value-obj-coercible.js fails
built-ins/Promise/prototype/then/capability-executor-not-callable.js fails
built-ins/Promise/prototype/then/ctor-custom.js fails
built-ins/Promise/prototype/then/ctor-throws.js fails
built-ins/Promise/race/ctx-ctor.js fails
built-ins/Proxy/ownKeys/return-duplicate-entries-throws.js fails
built-ins/Proxy/ownKeys/return-duplicate-symbol-entries-throws.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/prototype/Symbol.match/builtin-success-u-return-val-groups.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/prototype/Symbol.split/species-ctor.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/prototype/exec/S15.10.6.2_A5_T3.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/prototype/exec/failure-lastindex-access.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/prototype/exec/success-lastindex-access.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/prototype/source/value-line-terminator.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/prototype/test/S15.10.6.3_A1_T22.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/unicode_restricted_brackets.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/unicode_restricted_character_class_escape.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/unicode_restricted_identity_escape.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/unicode_restricted_identity_escape_alpha.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/unicode_restricted_identity_escape_c.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/unicode_restricted_incomple_quantifier.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/unicode_restricted_octal_escape.js fails
built-ins/RegExp/unicode_restricted_quantifiable_assertion.js fails
built-ins/Set/prototype/forEach/iterates-values-revisits-after-delete-re-add.js fails
built-ins/SharedArrayBuffer/data-allocation-after-object-creation.js fails
built-ins/SharedArrayBuffer/prototype-from-newtarget.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/endsWith/return-abrupt-from-searchstring-regexp-test.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/includes/return-abrupt-from-searchstring-regexp-test.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/indexOf/position-tointeger-toprimitive.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/indexOf/searchstring-tostring-toprimitive.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/replace/cstm-replace-get-err.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/replace/cstm-replace-invocation.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/replace/this-value-not-obj-coercible.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/search/cstm-search-get-err.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/search/cstm-search-invocation.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/search/invoke-builtin-search-searcher-undef.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/search/invoke-builtin-search.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/slice/this-value-not-obj-coercible.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/split/cstm-split-get-err.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/split/cstm-split-invocation.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/startsWith/return-abrupt-from-searchstring-regexp-test.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/toLocaleLowerCase/Final_Sigma_U180E.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/toLocaleLowerCase/special_casing_conditional.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/toLowerCase/Final_Sigma_U180E.js fails
built-ins/String/prototype/toLowerCase/special_casing_conditional.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/constructor.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/fill/fill-values-conversion-operations-consistent-nan.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/slice/bit-precision.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/arraylength-internal.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/comparefn-call-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/comparefn-calls.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/detached-buffer-comparefn.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/invoked-as-func.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/invoked-as-method.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/length.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/name.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/prop-desc.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/return-same-instance.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/sortcompare-with-no-tostring.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/sorted-values-nan.js fails
built-ins/TypedArray/prototype/sort/sorted-values.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/buffer-arg/defined-negative-length.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/object-arg/as-generator-iterable-returns.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/object-arg/iterating-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/object-arg/iterator-not-callable-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/object-arg/iterator-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/detached-when-species-retrieved-different-type.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/detached-when-species-retrieved-same-type.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/other-ctor-buffer-ctor-access-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/other-ctor-buffer-ctor-custom-species.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/other-ctor-buffer-ctor-not-object-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/other-ctor-buffer-ctor-species-access-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/other-ctor-buffer-ctor-species-not-ctor-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/other-ctor-buffer-ctor-species-prototype-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/same-ctor-buffer-ctor-access-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/same-ctor-buffer-ctor-species-custom.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/same-ctor-buffer-ctor-species-not-ctor.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/same-ctor-buffer-ctor-species-prototype-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/same-ctor-buffer-ctor-species-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/ctors/typedarray-arg/same-ctor-buffer-ctor-value-not-obj-throws.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/internals/Get/key-is-not-integer.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/internals/Get/key-is-not-minus-zero.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/internals/Get/key-is-out-of-bounds.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/internals/Set/detached-buffer.js fails
built-ins/TypedArrays/internals/Set/tonumber-value-throws.js fails
built-ins/global/global-object.js fails
built-ins/global/property-descriptor.js fails
built-ins/isFinite/toprimitive-not-callable-throws.js fails
built-ins/isNaN/toprimitive-not-callable-throws.js fails
language/computed-property-names/class/static/method-number.js fails
language/computed-property-names/class/static/method-string.js fails
language/computed-property-names/class/static/method-symbol.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/new.target-arrow.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/new.target.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/non-definable-function-with-function.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/direct/non-definable-function-with-variable.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/direct/non-definable-global-function.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/direct/non-definable-global-generator.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/direct/super-call-arrow.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/super-call-fn.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/super-call-method.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/super-call.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/super-prop-arrow.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/super-prop-dot-no-home.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/super-prop-expr-no-home-no-eval.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/super-prop-expr-no-home.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/super-prop.js fails
language/eval-code/direct/this-value-func-strict-source.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/direct/var-env-func-init-global-update-configurable.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/direct/var-env-global-lex-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/direct/var-env-lower-lex-catch-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/direct/var-env-lower-lex-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/indirect/always-non-strict.js strictFails
language/eval-code/indirect/new.target.js fails
language/eval-code/indirect/non-definable-function-with-function.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/indirect/non-definable-function-with-variable.js sloppyFails
language/eval-code/indirect/non-definable-global-function.js fails
language/eval-code/indirect/non-definable-global-generator.js fails
language/eval-code/indirect/non-definable-global-var.js strictFails
language/eval-code/indirect/super-call.js fails
language/eval-code/indirect/super-prop.js fails
language/eval-code/indirect/this-value-func.js strictFails
language/eval-code/indirect/var-env-func-init-global-new.js strictFails
language/eval-code/indirect/var-env-func-init-global-update-configurable.js fails
language/eval-code/indirect/var-env-func-init-multi.js strictFails
language/eval-code/indirect/var-env-func-non-strict.js strictFails
language/eval-code/indirect/var-env-global-lex-non-strict.js fails
language/eval-code/indirect/var-env-var-init-global-exstng.js strictFails
language/eval-code/indirect/var-env-var-init-global-new.js strictFails
language/eval-code/indirect/var-env-var-non-strict.js strictFails
language/expressions/arrow-function/dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/expressions/arrow-function/dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/expressions/arrow-function/lexical-super-call-from-within-constructor.js fails
language/expressions/arrow-function/lexical-supercall-from-immediately-invoked-arrow.js fails
language/expressions/arrow-function/scope-body-lex-distinct.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/arrow-function/scope-param-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/arrow-function/scope-param-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/arrow-function/scope-param-rest-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/arrow-function/scope-param-rest-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/arrow-function/scope-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A5_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A5_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A5_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A5_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A5_T5.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A6_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A6_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A6_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A7_T1.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A7_T2.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/S11.13.1_A7_T3.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/destructuring/iterator-destructuring-property-reference-target-evaluation-order.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/destructuring/keyed-destructuring-property-reference-target-evaluation-order.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-iter-rtrn-close-err.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-iter-thrw-close-err.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-iter-thrw-close.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-put-let.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-list-thrw-close-err.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-list-thrw-close.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-rtrn-close-err.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-rtrn-close-null.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-rtrn-close.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-thrw-close-err.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-thrw-close.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-rest-iter-rtrn-close-err.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-rest-iter-rtrn-close-null.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-rest-iter-rtrn-close.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-rest-iter-thrw-close-err.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-rest-iter-thrw-close.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-rest-lref-err.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-array-rest-put-let.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-obj-id-put-let.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/dstr-obj-prop-put-let.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/fn-name-lhs-cover.js fails
language/expressions/assignment/fn-name-lhs-member.js fails
language/expressions/async-function/expression-returns-promise.js fails
language/expressions/async-function/syntax-expression-is-PrimaryExpression.js fails
language/expressions/await/await-BindingIdentifier-in-global.js fails
language/expressions/await/await-in-nested-function.js fails
language/expressions/await/await-in-nested-generator.js fails
language/expressions/await/await-throws-rejections.js fails
language/expressions/call/11.2.3-3_3.js fails
language/expressions/call/eval-spread-empty-leading.js fails
language/expressions/call/eval-spread-empty-trailing.js fails
language/expressions/call/eval-spread.js fails
language/expressions/call/scope-lex-open.js fails
language/expressions/class/gen-meth-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/expressions/class/gen-meth-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/expressions/class/gen-meth-static-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/expressions/class/gen-meth-static-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/expressions/class/meth-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/expressions/class/meth-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/expressions/class/meth-static-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/expressions/class/meth-static-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/expressions/class/name.js fails
language/expressions/class/scope-gen-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/class/scope-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/class/scope-setter-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/class/scope-static-gen-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/class/scope-static-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/class/scope-static-setter-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.10_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.10_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.10_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.10_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.10_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.11_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.11_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.11_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.11_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.11_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.1_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.1_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.1_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.1_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.1_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.2_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.2_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.2_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.2_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.2_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.3_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.3_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.3_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.3_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.3_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.4_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.4_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.4_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.4_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.4_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.5_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.5_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.5_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.5_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.5_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.6_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.6_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.6_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.6_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.6_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.7_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.7_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.7_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.7_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.7_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.8_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.8_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.8_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.8_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.8_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.9_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.9_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.9_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.9_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A5.9_T5.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.10_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.11_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.1_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.2_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.3_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.4_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.5_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.6_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.7_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.8_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A6.9_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.10_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.11_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.1_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.2_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.3_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.4_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.5_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.6_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.7_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.8_T4.js fails
language/expressions/compound-assignment/S11.13.2_A7.9_T4.js fails
language/expressions/delete/super-property.js fails
language/expressions/function/arguments-with-arguments-fn.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/function/arguments-with-arguments-lex.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/function/dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/expressions/function/dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/expressions/function/name.js fails
language/expressions/function/param-dflt-yield-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/function/scope-body-lex-distinct.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/function/scope-name-var-open-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/function/scope-name-var-open-strict.js strictFails
language/expressions/function/scope-param-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/function/scope-param-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/function/scope-param-rest-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/function/scope-param-rest-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/function/scope-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/generators/arguments-with-arguments-fn.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/arguments-with-arguments-lex.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/default-proto.js fails
language/expressions/generators/dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/expressions/generators/dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/expressions/generators/name.js fails
language/expressions/generators/named-yield-identifier-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/scope-body-lex-distinct.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/scope-name-var-open-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/scope-name-var-open-strict.js strictFails
language/expressions/generators/scope-param-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/scope-param-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/scope-param-rest-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/scope-param-rest-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/scope-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/generators/yield-as-function-expression-binding-identifier.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/yield-as-identifier-in-nested-function.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/generators/yield-as-literal-property-name.js fails
language/expressions/generators/yield-as-property-name.js fails
language/expressions/generators/yield-identifier-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/let-non-strict-access.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/let-non-strict-syntax.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/gen-meth-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/gen-meth-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/gen-yield-identifier-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/meth-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/meth-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/object-method-returns-promise.js fails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/yield-as-function-expression-binding-identifier.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/yield-as-identifier-in-nested-function.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/yield-as-literal-property-name.js fails
language/expressions/object/method-definition/yield-as-property-name.js fails
language/expressions/object/properties-names-eval-arguments.js strictFails
language/expressions/object/scope-gen-meth-body-lex-distinct.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-gen-meth-param-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-gen-meth-param-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-gen-meth-param-rest-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-gen-meth-param-rest-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-gen-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/object/scope-getter-body-lex-distinc.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-meth-body-lex-distinct.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-meth-param-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-meth-param-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-meth-param-rest-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-meth-param-rest-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/object/scope-setter-body-lex-distinc.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/object/scope-setter-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/expressions/postfix-decrement/S11.3.2_A5_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/postfix-decrement/S11.3.2_A5_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/postfix-decrement/S11.3.2_A5_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/postfix-decrement/S11.3.2_A5_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/postfix-decrement/S11.3.2_A5_T5.js fails
language/expressions/postfix-decrement/S11.3.2_A6_T3.js fails
language/expressions/postfix-increment/S11.3.1_A5_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/postfix-increment/S11.3.1_A5_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/postfix-increment/S11.3.1_A5_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/postfix-increment/S11.3.1_A5_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/postfix-increment/S11.3.1_A5_T5.js fails
language/expressions/postfix-increment/S11.3.1_A6_T3.js fails
language/expressions/prefix-decrement/S11.4.5_A5_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/prefix-decrement/S11.4.5_A5_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/prefix-decrement/S11.4.5_A5_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/prefix-decrement/S11.4.5_A5_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/prefix-decrement/S11.4.5_A5_T5.js fails
language/expressions/prefix-decrement/S11.4.5_A6_T3.js fails
language/expressions/prefix-increment/S11.4.4_A5_T1.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/prefix-increment/S11.4.4_A5_T2.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/prefix-increment/S11.4.4_A5_T3.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/prefix-increment/S11.4.4_A5_T4.js sloppyFails
language/expressions/prefix-increment/S11.4.4_A5_T5.js fails
language/expressions/prefix-increment/S11.4.4_A6_T3.js fails
language/expressions/tagged-template/invalid-escape-sequences.js fails
language/expressions/tagged-template/tco-member.js strictFails
language/function-code/each-param-has-own-non-shared-eval-scope.js sloppyFails
language/function-code/each-param-has-own-scope.js sloppyFails
language/function-code/eval-param-env-with-computed-key.js sloppyFails
language/function-code/eval-param-env-with-prop-initializer.js sloppyFails
language/global-code/decl-lex-restricted-global.js fails
language/global-code/script-decl-func-dups.js fails
language/global-code/script-decl-func.js fails
language/global-code/script-decl-lex-deletion.js sloppyFails
language/global-code/script-decl-lex-lex.js fails
language/global-code/script-decl-lex-restricted-global.js fails
language/global-code/script-decl-lex-var.js fails
language/global-code/script-decl-lex.js fails
language/global-code/script-decl-var-collision.js fails
language/global-code/script-decl-var.js fails
language/identifiers/other_id_continue.js fails
language/identifiers/other_id_start-escaped.js fails
language/identifiers/other_id_start.js fails
language/statements/async-function/cptn-decl.js fails
language/statements/async-function/declaration-returns-promise.js fails
language/statements/async-function/evaluation-body.js fails
language/statements/async-function/syntax-declaration-line-terminators-allowed.js fails
language/statements/class/constructor-inferred-observable-iteration.js fails
language/statements/class/cptn-decl.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/class-method-returns-promise.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/getters-restricted-ids.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/methods-gen-yield-as-literal-property-name.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/methods-gen-yield-as-property-name.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/methods-named-eval-arguments.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/prototype-property.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/setters-restricted-ids.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/this-access-restriction-2.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/this-access-restriction.js fails
language/statements/class/definition/this-check-ordering.js fails
language/statements/class/gen-meth-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/statements/class/gen-meth-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/statements/class/gen-meth-static-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/statements/class/gen-meth-static-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/statements/class/meth-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/statements/class/meth-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/statements/class/meth-static-dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/statements/class/meth-static-dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/statements/class/scope-gen-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/statements/class/scope-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/statements/class/scope-setter-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/statements/class/scope-static-gen-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/statements/class/scope-static-meth-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/statements/class/scope-static-setter-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/statements/class/subclass/bound-function.js fails
language/statements/class/subclass/default-constructor-spread-override.js fails
language/statements/for-in/head-lhs-let.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for-in/head-var-bound-names-let.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for-in/identifier-let-allowed-as-lefthandside-expression-not-strict.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-iter-rtrn-close-err.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-iter-thrw-close-err.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-iter-thrw-close.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-put-let.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-list-thrw-close-err.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-list-thrw-close.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-rtrn-close-err.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-rtrn-close-null.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-rtrn-close.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-thrw-close-err.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-elem-trlg-iter-rest-thrw-close.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-rest-iter-rtrn-close-err.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-rest-iter-rtrn-close-null.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-rest-iter-rtrn-close.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-rest-iter-thrw-close-err.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-rest-iter-thrw-close.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-rest-lref-err.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-array-rest-put-let.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-obj-id-put-let.js fails
language/statements/for-of/dstr-obj-prop-put-let.js fails
language/statements/for-of/head-var-bound-names-let.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for-of/iterator-next-reference.js fails
language/statements/for/head-lhs-let.js sloppyFails
language/statements/for/scope-body-lex-open.js fails
language/statements/function/13.2-30-s.js fails
language/statements/function/S13_A15_T4.js sloppyFails
language/statements/function/arguments-with-arguments-fn.js sloppyFails
language/statements/function/arguments-with-arguments-lex.js sloppyFails
language/statements/function/dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/statements/function/dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/statements/function/param-dflt-yield-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/statements/function/scope-body-lex-distinct.js sloppyFails
language/statements/function/scope-param-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/statements/function/scope-param-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/statements/function/scope-param-rest-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/statements/function/scope-param-rest-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/statements/function/scope-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/statements/generators/arguments-with-arguments-fn.js sloppyFails
language/statements/generators/arguments-with-arguments-lex.js sloppyFails
language/statements/generators/default-proto.js fails
language/statements/generators/dflt-params-ref-later.js fails
language/statements/generators/dflt-params-ref-self.js fails
language/statements/generators/scope-body-lex-distinct.js sloppyFails
language/statements/generators/scope-param-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/statements/generators/scope-param-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/statements/generators/scope-param-rest-elem-var-close.js sloppyFails
language/statements/generators/scope-param-rest-elem-var-open.js sloppyFails
language/statements/generators/scope-paramsbody-var-open.js fails
language/statements/generators/yield-as-function-expression-binding-identifier.js sloppyFails
language/statements/generators/yield-as-identifier-in-nested-function.js sloppyFails
language/statements/generators/yield-as-literal-property-name.js fails
language/statements/generators/yield-as-property-name.js fails
language/statements/generators/yield-identifier-non-strict.js sloppyFails
language/statements/let/block-local-closure-set-before-initialization.js fails
language/statements/let/function-local-closure-set-before-initialization.js fails
language/statements/let/global-closure-set-before-initialization.js fails
language/statements/try/scope-catch-block-lex-open.js fails
language/statements/variable/binding-resolution.js sloppyFails
language/statements/with/unscopables-inc-dec.js sloppyFails
language/types/reference/put-value-prop-base-primitive.js strictFails
